Dear Lucy, 

I’ve been having some tension with my roommate, and it’s affecting my mood and school life. How would you suggest resolving conflicts like this? I don’t like confrontation.

From, 

Concerned Roommate

Dear Concerned Roommate,

Ah, roommate conflicts. We’ve all been there — especially when you’ve had limited or no say in whom you’re living with. Tension between you and your roommates can make it hard to feel safe in your space, focus on work, and enjoy your life. 

A great way to prevent potential tension is to be open about what you need from the outset. Studies have shown that explicitly communicating personal feelings and needs — such as through roommate agreements — is the most effective way to maintain positive roommate relationships and decrease psychological stress. 

Agreements also help you avoid a common pitfall in the roommate relationship, assuming that your definition of common sense or “being considerate” matches their definition. In reality, every family and culture has their own ideas of these things, so clear communication is the only way to ensure you’re on the same page. 

For example, if you and your roommate agree to keep common areas clean, define what “clean” entails. Does it mean no food coating the stovetop? Or no dirty dishes in the sink? Do you want to make sure the floor is cleaned just as often as the counters? Tell your roommate specifically, and then listen for their response. 

If they have a concern or are uncertain about something because it’s not the way their family does it, don’t bulldoze forward. Ignoring potential discomfort often leads the other person to give up on the agreement, especially when other aspects of their lives become more stressful or time-consuming. 

Instead, discuss their hesitation in a non-judgmental way. For example, when my roommates requested that I use a Swiffer instead of a broom and dustpan, like I was used to, I told them I had never used a Swiffer. They walked me through it, and their patience ensured that we all felt comfortable going forward. (I also discovered Swiffer’s superiority to brooms.) 

Although it’s ideal to have these discussions when you first move in, it’s never too late to start. You can say something like, “Now that we’ve been living together for a while, I was hoping we could talk about our expectations for cleaning and common areas to make this space as good as it can be for both of us. When would it be good for you to chat?” 

Try to make this suggestion when you think your roommate isn’t busy or stressed, and say it in person. Tone is easily misconstrued via text. Consider timing, too: having a conversation after you both return to your apartment from holiday break could be a natural time to reset the expectations in your space, or to kindly reiterate agreements that one or both of you have become lax on. 

Regardless of whether you and your roommate are friends or randomly paired strangers, another way to proactively avoid arguments is to spend intentional time together. This isn’t to say that you have to be best friends but, if you establish some type of rapport, it will be much easier to communicate and compromise when you inevitably experience conflict. Your roommate will also be more likely to prioritize your living agreements if they’ve interacted with you as a person outside of just discussing roommate logistics. 

Try having dinner together one night or doing your laundry together. Maybe there’s a school event you both want to attend or something on Netflix you could watch together. Or perhaps you just make a point to catch up when you’re both in the kitchen. 

If you’re experiencing tension with your roommate and feel nervous about addressing it, I recommend writing out your main points and reading them to yourself to prepare. Make sure you’re using “I” statements that are less likely to make your roommate defensive than statements like “You always do x y z!” 

Take deep breaths in through your nose and out from your mouth if you feel yourself getting upset during your conversation. It sounds corny, but it’s one of the best science-backed ways to reduce stress. 

If your conversation becomes unproductive, you might say something like, “I’m noticing that this chat is starting to get tense. Could we pause for now and return to it once we’ve both had some time?” If you live in the dorms, you could even bring in an RA to mediate the conversation. 

Conclude your conversation by collaboratively deciding on what you’ll both do going forward to minimize tension. Afterward, write down your top takeaways.

I hope this helps, Concerned Roommate. As you navigate your situation, take comfort in the fact that this arrangement is temporary and now you know what’s important to you to help you choose a more compatible roommate in the future.

Love,

Lucy


Dear Lucy,

How do I balance my friendships and my romantic relationship without neglecting one or the other?

From,

Caught in the Middle

Dear Caught in the Middle,

First of all, congratulations on having such a buzzing social life! You have a bae to cozy up with during these cold months and friends to go out and have a blast with. 

The fact that you’re asking this question shows that you value both your romantic and platonic relationships enough to seek balance between them. That’s the first step toward finding what you desire. 

Sometimes, especially when your romantic relationship feels new, shiny, and exciting, it’s easy to have tunnel vision and end up neglecting your friends. It’s quite natural to want to nurture that special connection you have with someone – so don’t beat yourself up about it. 

However, remind yourself that oftentimes, friendships predate relationships. It’s not about who was there first, but rather about honoring your commitment to the people who have been there for you in the past. 

According to a Psychreg study, romantic relationships during young adulthood were linked to higher depressive symptoms, likely because of the pressure and emotional ups and downs that come with young love. As people get older, those negative effects may often lessen — and romantic connections even become beneficial. However, friendships consistently support mental health across all stages of life (Psychreg News Team, 2025). I don’t want to be pessimistic — maybe this is the love of your life! Who knows! Just know that whenever things get hard between you and your special somebody, good friends will always have your back. 

Don’t ghost them until something goes wrong — it’ll leave them feeling replaceable and like they’re only there to fulfill your own emotional needs. One of the best things you can be is a good friend. 

This is not to say that you should mainly prioritize your buddies because of some what-ifs. Your partner should be among your best friends, and the person you are closest to (literally and figuratively). 

You don’t usually keep a toothbrush in your bathroom, have a side of the bed, or dress up in your nicest clothes to meet the parents — then nervously sweat through said clothes — for just any friend. Romantic relationships take a lot of effort and commitment. It’s not a good sign if you constantly blow off dates to go bar-hopping with the group chat. Being a good partner is also one of the best qualities you can have.

Another thing to consider is that when you neglect your friends for romance — and vice versa — both parties may grow resentful toward not only you, but also each other. Research has demonstrated how approval and disapproval from your loved ones cause issues within relationships. When your friends dislike your partner, it affects the romantic relationship, and when your partner doesn’t like your friends, it not only predicts the outcome of your friendships but also negatively impacts your relationship (Sinclair, Felmlee, & Sprecher, 2015). That seriously blows.

So what are you supposed to do? Is it possible to go on dates with your partner and hang out at your friend’s place? How can you keep them from hating each other? And all this while trying to make time for school, jobs, and yourself? This is my answer to you, Caught in the Middle. 

First, you have to seriously consider how your social life fits into your schedule — what days you’re free, what days you aren’t. You can’t give your 100% when you spend nine hours at school crunching for a midterm. It’s important to make time for yourself, too. This is ever-changing, so it will take active mindfulness, but trust me, it gets easier. I promise. 

Then, you need to identify the key difference between finding time and making time. You find time to go to the cobbler for the shoes you got off of eBay, or to clear your inbox. You make time for the people whom you love. Sometimes it takes inconveniencing yourself to do so — that’s the key to healthy and balanced relationships. 

For example, if your best friend asks you to go watch a movie on Saturday, but you already have plans to go on a jazz bar date, it’s okay to say no! But take initiative and replan during that same conversation. Avoid making them keep asking to see you. Don’t pick one over the other — whichever plans were made first should be the ones you follow through with, unless it’s something important like a birthday.

Try to spend reasonable amounts of time with each person. If your bae is sleeping over four nights a week, plan something with the friends you haven’t had the chance to see yet. 

It’s also helpful to communicate if you know you won’t have time to see your friends on any given week. You have a phone — use it! You’d be surprised at the wonders a FaceTime call can do for your relationships.

One final thing to think about: if your friends or your partner have an issue with how you allocate your time, you should be willing to hear them out. In the case that the person becomes overbearing and is intentionally trying to cut you off from your other relationships, please reconsider your boundaries and take a step back. 

The people in your life should be supportive and glad to see you happy — not envious or controlling. You, and you alone, have the right to decide how and with whom you spend your time as long as it’s healthy and productive. 

On that note, be good to your partner, your friends, and yourself. Humans are naturally social creatures — you need these kinds of healthy relationships in your life to grow. I hope you find the balance you’re hoping for. Treat others how you want to be treated. It is your first time being a person on this Earth. Give yourself grace.

Love,

Lucy



Dear Lucy, 

My friend is dating someone I don’t trust. Should I say something or stay out of it?

From, 

On the Sidelines

Dear On the Sidelines,

When someone you love starts dating a person you don’t trust, it can feel like being stuck behind glass — you can see what’s happening, but you can’t stop it. You want to be happy for them, you really do, but there’s that familiar ache in your chest that whispers, Something’s off. Maybe it’s the way their new partner speaks to them, or how your friend seems to fade a little when that person’s around. Maybe it’s not even something you can pinpoint — just a gut feeling you can’t shake.

It’s natural to want to protect your friend from pain, but before you act on that instinct, it’s important to ask yourself where that mistrust comes from. In one of her many books, psychiatrist Dr. Judith Orloff writes about trusting your intuition — “the quiet voice within” —  and cautions that worry or fear can cloud what’s true. Have you seen your friend in unhealthy relationships before and fear this is a repeat? Or are you sensing genuine red flags? If there’s clear, concerning behavior — like manipulation, disrespect, or isolation — your feelings are worth voicing.

 Many relationship researchers warn that early patterns of criticism, control, or emotional distancing can predict later conflict or unhappiness. The Gottman Institute’s work often emphasizes how small negative patterns — if left unchecked — erode trust over time.

Still, how you voice your concern matters just as much as what you say. Instead of, “I don’t like your partner,” try something softer like, “I care about you, and I’ve noticed a few things that make me uneasy. Can I share what I’ve seen?” That wording invites reflection rather than defense.

If, on the other hand, your unease stems more from discomfort than from behavior — maybe their personalities clash with yours, or they simply feel unfamiliar — it might be worth holding off. There’s a broad tendency in human psychology called ingroup favoritism: we often favor people who seem like “us” and distrust those who seem different. Your discomfort might come more from expectation than danger.

You can still keep watch — paying attention with care. Silence isn’t always betrayal. Your voice matters, but your friend deserves the chance to learn and grow in their own way. Sometimes the strongest love is the kind that stands by without trying to steer.

If you decide to bring up your observations, be transparent about your motives. You’re speaking out of care, not control. You might say, “I’m only mentioning this because your happiness matters to me. I trust you to decide what to do. I just wanted to share what I’m seeing.” Then step back and let space do its work. Whether they understand or not, you’ve planted a seed they may revisit later.

If you choose to stay silent, that doesn’t mean you’re abandoning them. Sometimes the best way to show love is to stay close — so, if things do shift, they’ll remember who didn’t judge, who stayed steady, and who stayed there.

On the Sidelines, loving someone means accepting that you can’t always shield them — only walk beside them when they need you most. Trust that your care will speak louder than your fear.

Love, 

Lucy



Dear Lucy,

How do I not cheat on my significant other?

From,

Conflicted Partner

Dear Conflicted Partner, 

Relationships are beautiful, but they can also be incredibly hard. Juggling the needs and expectations of your partner all while navigating the added stressors of work, family, and life can become overwhelming. What once felt like love and affection might start to feel like pressure and obligation. 

Sometimes, the texts that once made your heart flutter start to feel like just another demand. That quiet shift, from feeling cherished to being burdened, can be subtle yet powerful. 

There are many reasons people feel tempted to cheat: feeling unseen, unimportant, emotionally disconnected, or simply overwhelmed. When connection fades, people often look outside for what they feel is missing: validation, attention, or emotional intimacy. 

Newsweek reports cheating is hardly random, “When one can’t count on their partner to be available in their time of need, it leads to unfavorable comparisons, emotional distance, and eventual betrayal, if not the demise of love,” explains Jinashree Rajendrakumar, a certified Gottman couple therapist. 

According to three scientists researching relationships at The Gottman Institute, “Cheating is preceded by a cascade of steps that lead to the act of betrayal,” Newsweek reported. Breakdowns may result in “turning away or against your partner, avoiding conflict, investing less in the relationship, feeling less dependent, idealizing alternative relationships, feeling resentful or lonely, holding secrets and crossing boundaries.”  

People feeling trapped may search for the things they desire in a relationship in others that aren’t their partner. The fantasy of another person or relationship can be a happy replacement to imagine if you’re experiencing feelings of dissatisfaction. 

But the truth is, cheating doesn’t resolve the tension. It magnifies it. What starts as an escape becomes another burden  — secrecy, guilt, fractured trust, and emotional fallout. 

Ask yourself honestly, do you want to stay with your partner? 

If the answer is yes, then it’s worth investing some more time and effort. Reflect on how it felt at the beginning  — the excitement, vulnerability, the joy in those small moments. Rebuilding that connection is possible, but it requires a mutual effort. 

Verywellmind, an online psychology resource, suggests rebuilding connection through regular quality time, open communication, and small gestures of love. “Think about the life you want to build with your partner and remember that infidelity could jeopardize those dreams. Reminding yourself of the long-term effects of cheating can help you stay grounded and committed to your relationship.”

Verywellmind also wrote, “Sometimes in a relationship, especially a long-term one, you may feel like you’ve lost yourself. If you’ve been dealing with feelings of temptation and can’t identify the root cause, it may be time to refocus on your own personal growth and well-being.” Creating boundaries to avoid any temptation, along with practicing healthy coping mechanisms, are strategies that can help improve self-esteem.   

Sometimes, temptation isn’t just about the relationship, it’s about losing yourself within it. Take time to focus on your personal growth, and goals. Pursue hobbies, practice self-care, and explore what makes you feel fulfilled outside of your relationship. A stronger connection with yourself leads to a healthier connection with your partner. 

According to a study done at the University of Rochester, practicing empathy can reduce the temptation for alternative relationships. The study revealed that the “practice [of] empathy is to try to adopt another person’s perspective.” Researchers examined interactions with study participants, comparing the level of commitment and desire for their current partner. The study also found that “adopting a partner’s perspective increased commitment and desire for the partner, while simultaneously decreasing sexual and romantic interest in alternative mates.” Trying to see things from your partner’s perspective can help decrease the likelihood of engaging in behaviors that may damage your relationship or hurt your partner. 

Harry T. Reis, professor of psychology at University of Rochester, and author of Relationships, Well-Being and Behaviour wrote that cheating is, “prioritizing one’s own goals over the good of the partner and the relationship, so seeing things from the other person’s perspective gives one a more balanced view of these situations.” 

No relationship can thrive without honest communication. If something feels off, say so. 

If you’re frustrated or hurt, talk about it. Silence breeds distance, but speaking your truth, even if it leads to hard conversations or fights, allows for mutual healing and growth.

Per Psychology Today, adhering to your partner’s specific love language can help bridge the emotional gap. Whether through words of affirmation, acts of service, quality time, or physical affection, these small but intentional gestures can foster a relationship that feels more thoughtful and connected.

Seeking validation outside of your relationship might feel thrilling and offer that much-needed temporary reprieve, but the consequences are far worse. Cheating is more than a mistake, it’s a reflection of deeper issues left unresolved. 

There is always another option. If love really is gone, it may be time to step back and think about what you truly want; for yourself and the relationship. 

Breaking up is one of the most stressful yet necessary parts of a relationship. Closure for both parties is essential to gain the confidence to move forward and take the risk of heart break again. 

Psychology Today also offered some tips to break up firmly while being empathetic, “Accept the reasons the relationship didn’t work while retaining the ability to look back on it with warmth. The person you’re breaking up with deserves the same, and will need to experience the breakup in a way that doesn’t overwhelm their good memories.”

Be honest with yourself and end the relationship as soon as you know it’s time; there’s no reason to drag it out and extend the pain. Break up in person, don’t do it over the phone or in a public place. Be clear about your reasons for breaking up, avoid vague language, and take responsibility for the decision. Try not to devalue their feelings, friend zone or offer false hope for the future. By providing respect and closure, you both will have the tools to move on. 

Conflicted Partner, if you truly want the relationship to last, don’t run away from the discomfort, lean into it. Fix what’s broken and reconnect. Honesty and vulnerability are pillars to a healthy relationship, allow yourself the opportunity to keep an open mind and return to those feelings that drew you to your partner in the first place. 

But if you’re scheduling the dreaded breakup instead, allow yourself to replay memories of the good moments and remember how powerful it made you feel knowing someone had your back. Relationships may come and go, but there is only one you. Use the time to know exactly what you want out of a partnership, and the non-negotiables you are unwilling to let go of. Experiences are lessons, take the opportunity to learn what you want. 

Love, 

Lucy



Dear Lucy,

In my head I always think I want a boyfriend or just a guy I can be romantically involved with … but when I see actual people in relationships and how codependent they are, I immediately get an ick and realize that I prefer to be dependent and work on myself rather than be with a man … is there something wrong with me?  

From,

Flying Solo

There is absolutely nothing wrong with you. I, too, would rather be on my own than with a man (yuck!). And while the idea of someone taking me out on dates and bringing me flowers sounds nice, I remember that we are living in the 21st century, and no man is buying you flowers in 2025, especially in this economy. Plus, to quote Miley Cyrus: you can buy yourself flowers. 

So, Flying Solo, kudos to you for wanting to embrace singledom. I wish more people would because being single has its perks. For one, you don’t have to worry about being disappointed by a man — because they will always disappoint you. On a more serious note, being single gives you time to prioritize yourself, as suggested by Time Magazine. 

With that extra time, you can “figure out who you are and what you stand for,” which Clinical Psychologist Dr. Jenny Taitz says is critical. Relationships can limit your creativity and make balancing all aspects of life challenging, adding unnecessary stress. “In relationships, people risk losing touch with themselves because they have less time alone to focus on their own personal development,” says Dr. Niloo Dardashti, a New York-based psychologist and relationship expert.

Singledom allows you to work on yourself, and you’re in the best place to do it! “There’s no greater city in the world for flying solo,” Carla Sosenko, editor-in-chief of Time Out New York, says. According to figures from OkCupid, there is a higher percentage of single people in New York City than in any other city, so you’re not alone in flying solo.

It’s no secret that New Yorkers like to live to the beat of their own drum. So it’s no surprise that many New Yorkers are single — well, that and the fact that dating in NYC is terrible. “Deemed ‘cutthroat’ by freaked-out folks on the prowl, the city’s dating scene is, unfortunately, oversaturated with noncommittal singles,” according to the NY Post. But the city allows you to rediscover yourself. The same cannot be said for small towns where everybody knows everybody. You can disappear and get lost in the crowds of people, which may even allow you to realize that being alone isn’t so bad when the city can be your soulmate.

But is being single really better? Well, that depends. According to one 2021 study, leisure activities provide a wide array of health benefits, and the best part is you don’t need to do these with a partner or a group. Still, you may want to consider a relationship sometime down the road because while New York is an excellent soulmate, it can get pretty lonely after a while — especially if you are new to the city or live alone. 

I suggest using the time you are single to consider what you want out of a relationship. And like I said, there’s no better place to contemplate your love life than NYC. “By exploring different romantic possibilities, you learn what your strengths, weaknesses, and needs are in intimate relationships,” Saya Des Marais, MSW, writes in PsychCentral. “This can help you learn more about yourself and clarify what you’re looking for in an eventual partner.”

How do you explore your romantic possibilities? Start by figuring out what you want from a romantic relationship. Do you want something casual or serious? What kind of people do you see yourself with romantically? Know exactly what you want, and if you’re thinking, I don’t know what I want, then now’s the perfect time to figure it out!

Consider how you can contribute to your desired relationship. What do you bring to the table? You may answer this question by thinking about love languages or how you like to receive and give love. Think about your past relationships, platonic or otherwise, to help you figure out what you bring to the table. Using that information, go out into the world and look for people, places, and things that fulfill those romantic interests. Think of it as research; the more data you have, the more accurate the end result.

Or perhaps you might decide to be independent for good like Bella DePaulo, who has genuinely embraced single life: DePaulo describes herself as ‘single at heart,’ a term she coined to challenge the notion that single life is something people settle for. Instead of investing in romance, DePaulo invests her energy into friends, family, and most importantly, herself. “People who are single at heart understand that love encompasses far more than just romantic love. They understand that intimacy can include sexual intimacy, but it also includes emotional intimacy,” DePaulo said in a UC Santa Barbara article. 

DePaulo is proof that one can live a happy life on one’s own despite living in a world where being single is discouraged. “I think of it not as a lesser life or a more limiting life, but a more expansive life,” DePaulo said.

I’ve always been uninterested in wasting my single years on toxic relationships or, worse, situationships. But every time I watch rom-coms or shows with epic love stories — like the one between Kate Sharma and Anthony Bridgerton in Season 2 of Bridgerton — I can’t help but wonder why I cannot find a man like Anthony Bridgerton. 

The truth is, Sabrina Carpenter was right: “A boy who’s nice that breathes, I swear he’s nowhere to be seen.” It really is “Slim Pickins,” Flying Solo, so embrace your independence and, when the time is right, you’ll find a relationship worthwhile.

Love,

Lucy


Dear Lucy,

I’m feeling homesick and struggling to adjust to life at college. How do I cope with being away from home and adjusting to a new environment?

From,

No Place Like Home

Dear No Place Like Home,

No matter if you’ve moved from one side of the world to the other, or even just from the Bronx to the Bowery, leaving home — especially for the first time — can be a very stressful ordeal. 

Trying to find your footing in unfamiliar places is difficult, and combined with cultural differences and the loss of your social network, the desire to just leave it all behind and return home may sometimes seem more appealing. But it’s important to remember that, even when homesickness is overwhelming, it is temporary, and you are not alone.

A 2016 survey conducted by UCLA found that 71.4% of college students experience homesickness.

Adjusting can be especially hard in the first few months of college. Another 2016 research study, published in the psychological journal Emotion, found that roughly 94% of college students reported feeling homesickness during their first semester. 

So while it might create feelings of isolation and loneliness, homesickness is a common experience. It is always OK to reach out to friends, family, or even people in the surrounding community if you are finding it hard to cope with the emotions of being away from home.

Even though I am only a two-hour drive from my hometown, and can visit friends and family throughout the year, home can still feel like it’s a whole world away. When I first came to the city, trying to build connections to my new environment felt like a fruitless effort at times. It took me almost two years of living in New York before I started feeling grounded. Finding cool bookstores and coffee shops, going to concerts, and even figuring out my preferred way to walk to school helped me adjust. Building new connections wherever you are in a present moment is a great way to help with homesickness. 

Though it may seem difficult to find community in a new place, it’s there if you look for it. But if you’re having trouble, know that you’re not the only one. A new study found that 76% of New School students feel disconnected from one another.

But community is all around us, whether or not we know it. The New School has a number of clubs and organizations that students can join, including: gender-inclusive sports teams, such as the volleyball team and the Rock Climbing Collective; art clubs, like the New Film Club and the Parsons Printmaking club; community organizations, such as the Gender and Sexuality Alliance, which hosted a drag gala last month for National Coming Out Day.

International students can experience an even higher level of homesickness than their peers, according to a study published in the Journal of Psychology. 

International Student & Scholar Services (ISSS) at The New School offers resources to help international students find community and cope with culture shock on campus. They work with a nonprofit called One To World that is dedicated to helping international students in New York City find their footing and build community.

Dean of Students Shondrika Merritt is having another Thanksgiving event this year for any students unable to travel during the holiday or for those simply looking for a way to connect with their community and have a good meal together over the short break. If you so choose, you do not have to spend the break alone.

Needless to say, there are plenty of events happening at The New School that are open to all students, so there is always something to do. 

Going to events outside of school is also a great way to engage with your new surroundings. An amazing thing about New York City is that there is truly something for everyone here, so your people are out there somewhere even if you haven’t met them yet. There are literally tons of different events happening all over the city every single day — including activities that are  accessible and affordable. 

The New School offers a number of student discounts to things all around the city, such as free entry to the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) and pay-what-you-wish for the Natural History Museum. Carnegie Hall offers a discount program where students can get low rates for shows. Even some record stores and coffee shops hold free events from time to time. 

One fabulous spot is For the Record in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, which regularly hosts free listening parties for new or upcoming releases, often accessible for all ages. Another lovely spot, Pete’s Candy Store, a bar on Lorimer Street in Williamsburg, has free events and shows nearly every day of the week. The New School’s own Lola Quinn, an indie folk singer-songwriter, occasionally plays shows there. 

Suffice to say, no matter what you are passionate about, there is something for you to do and enjoy and there are others who will share the same interest. It just might take a little extra digging.

Exploring your surroundings can be an essential part of coping with homesickness. You have to find the parts of your new home that resonate with you; you have to make this place your own.

Going out and learning about the place you live in is a reliable way to put down your roots in a new city. Otherwise, you might find yourself unable to settle in. Walking around and finding shops, parks, and restaurants that speak to you can be a great way to make your space feel more familiar, and can help you get the most out of your time here. There are restaurants all over the city, from an abundance of different locales and cultures, so you can always find food that gives you a taste of home.

You will always miss home, but one day you may miss the time you spent here too.

Growing up means missing the past – the places we’ve been and the people we’ve met. The best we can do is learn to live with the longing. It is a good reminder that no matter where we go, there are people in the world who love us — who fill our hearts so much that we get to miss them when we’re away.

That thought alone has given me so much strength as I’ve worked to plant new roots and look more positively toward the future. Now, when I go visit home, I feel a pang of longing for New York as well.

Dear Lucy,

I’m struggling to find a balance between school, social life, and personal time. How do you manage everything without burning out?

From, 

Indecisive Juggler

Dear Indecisive Juggler,

I’m sorry to hear that you’re struggling with everything going on in your life. You may be thinking that it all may fall apart. But fear not, I’m here to guide you through this common struggle. 

First things first, sit back and reflect. A good way to manage everything that’s on your plate is by first recognizing what you’re good at and then deciding what matters the most to you.

Higher education can be expensive and it’s a good idea to stay focused on what you choose to invest in during the long run. School should never be your last priority as you are a student pursuing higher endeavors and likely yearning for a career of interest.

While it’s good to have an active social life, there will be moments where you have to take a step back and reevaluate your priorities. In order to have a balance, you must ask yourself, “Should I go out this weekend or practice for my presentation on Monday?” or “Someone asked me out today and I want to go on a date, but my friends and I are going to the club this Friday. How do I choose?” 

To this, an article from WPU interviewed a college student who explained that, “It’s all about time management and prioritizing tasks. I keep a planner to keep track of assignments, exams, and social events. I make sure to schedule study sessions and allocate specific time for my academics, and then I try to schedule my social life around that.” 

Now, let’s dive back a little into the past. When you were in high school, you might have had at least one or two extracurriculars that you participated in, whether it was a sport, a club, or something else entirely. You might have had to figure out how to balance those on top of your academics. 

But if not, there were a couple of things high schoolers had to do to balance it all. They might have done all of their homework during a free period or lunch time so that they could go to a concert later in the day, or they might have asked for an extension on a project because they needed to take time to prioritize their mental health. 

Looking back on my high school years, I definitely struggled with balancing school, a job, and an extracurricular activity. All of these things were time-consuming and for some time, I lacked the social life I maintained with my school friends. However, I informed them of my extracurriculars and we came up with short times to hangout. Taking the same train home or getting food after school helped maintain our friendship. I also had friends that I made outside of school which helped to keep a more general social life that wasn’t restricted to a single environment. 

With homework, one of my teachers told me that I should do the most challenging subject first and then complete the easier, less time-consuming work right after. This worked tremendously. I noticed that I was able to finish all my work a little bit faster than when I just went the easy route. 

According to University of Arkansas’ Hog Talk, “When a student has an organized list of all the tasks they have to do for their classes and all their assignment due dates, they’ll be more likely to fulfill these tasks and less likely to let the social events derail them.” 

The article also mentioned that, “A lot of students really struggle with the word ‘no.’ … College is such a fun and exciting time that students want to get involved in every organization and have leadership roles in these organizations and volunteer and go to social functions and events.” However, that can damage academic performance, and both your social and personal lives. Don’t juggle everything in your life as if it’s equally important, it’ll cause everything to fall apart. 

To avoid burnout, set a schedule and write down what needs to be done as soon as possible and anything that may interrupt. If plans with friends come up on the same day that you planned on taking a mental health day, communicate that you need time to yourself so you can recharge. Your friends will understand as they have possibly been through the same. 

Please know that you are not a bad friend for wanting to focus on academics or alone time. In fact, it may strengthen your relationships with others to know that you want to take a breather after having a stressful week at school or constantly going to numerous events. 

Lastly, I want you to know that you need to set your own pace because only you know what works best for you. Remember, there is no shame in prioritizing specific tasks over others. Only you can boost or hinder your performance. 

Love, 

Lucy

Dear Lucy, 

I struggle with test anxiety and pressure to perform well. Do you have any tips for managing stress before and during exams?

From,

Anxious Tester

Dear Anxious Tester, 

There is nothing more nerve-racking than walking into a test room. Sitting down at a cramped desk forces the knot of anxiety to sink deeper in your stomach. That ball of nerves always sits the heaviest in moments like these — realizing all the preparation and stress has led to this exact moment.

No pressure, right? 

For many, the idea of any mandated exam is enough for us to break into a frantic sweat and hives. However, it doesn’t have to feel like agony. There are many things you can do to prevent falling into an overwhelming, negative spiral.

Finding the perfect study method

There are some things that are in our control before that fearful date with the cramped desk arrives. Before the exam, take the time to be proactive. Studying is an obvious way to partially relieve thoughts of failure. When you become an expert on the subject, there’s less to worry about.

Cramming is another story entirely, but it’s not the best strategy for remaining stress-free. Pushing yourself to memorize a whole semester’s worth of notes will only add more pressure and stress, especially with a looming deadline. Studying can be the hardest thing to truly do, and rereading the material 50 times only helps so much. 

According to E-Student.org, there are many different studying techniques and finding the right strategy to fit your  thinking style can be a big help. E-Student suggests methods that encourage true understanding of topics rather than just memorization. Finding the study method that suits you the best can help alleviate some anxiety, boosting your confidence in the materials being tested. 

Morning of

The night before any big performance is the worst. Stressful thoughts are often the loudest in those final hours. It can be tempting to just sit and ruminate, fearfully conjuring worst-case scenarios. 

Resist that temptation and instead imagine the possibility of acing the exam. What would it feel like if the audition went flawlessly? Visualizing positive scenarios can give you that needed glimmer of hope. 

One of the most important things to do before the big day is simple: sleep. No one can do their best if they are struggling to stay awake. Going to bed earlier is an easy tactic that could make all the difference.

On the day of, don’t forget to fuel up with a healthy breakfast!  According to the University of the People, a quick bite of toast, bananas, or something else quick and easy can do wonders since they’re brain food. Remember to bring water with you; staying hydrated is just as important for the mind as it is for the body. 

Use the morning or night before to go through a nurturing self-care routine. Envision those positive scenarios, and overall, keep your mindset focused on hope. If you are having trouble convincing yourself, remember this one simple fact: even if you fail, there is always tomorrow. 

The world will never end based on a bad performance or test grade. Don’t let something as simple as an exam ruin the truth about yourself.

Fighting anxiety in the moment 

Even after all your preparation, sometimes your mind can go blank the second you step into the exam room. The overpowering tension can be too much to bear, forcing everything to leave your mind. 

If you feel yourself getting overwhelmed, find a moment to let yourself rest and relax. Fill your mind with positive thoughts.

Vegas School offers these helpful mantras: “I am confident in my abilities,” “I am prepared and capable of succeeding,” “I remain calm and focused during stressful times,” and “Each challenge I face is an opportunity for growth.” A simple, “I know I can do this. I worked hard and deserve this” can provide quick motivation. 

The big packet of test questions might seem intimidating, but don’t let that stop you; just start! Try answering simple questions before moving onto the more challenging ones. Take it one question at a time. If you get stuck, don’t be afraid to move on and come back later. 

If negative thoughts pop up, stop them in their tracks. Notice the thoughts, and try to rationalize their true plausibility. A strategy known as “challenging your thoughts” may help with this specific stressor. Healthline gives examples for challenging those negative thoughts:

“Do you know with absolute certainty that missing this single question will ruin your score?”
“Is failure merely something you fear could happen?”
“What if the opposite is true, and this single question won’t affect your score much at all?”
Challenging these thoughts can help bring back reality and stop irrational fears from taking over. Remind yourself of this, “what would really happen if you failed?”, chances are nothing too terrible. Once you’ve calmed down, give that tricky question another try.

If none of these techniques are returning you to a confident state, try centering yourself. Vegas School offers examples on creating a sense of calm on demand: 

“Choose an Anchor: An anchor is something to focus on, like your breath. Focus on the sensation of air entering and leaving your body.”
“Focus on the Anchor: Pay attention to the physical sensations of your breath. Feel the rise and fall of your chest as you breathe. Fully engaging with this helps quiet your mind and center your thoughts.”
“Practice breathing: Inhale for 5 counts, hold for 1, and exhale for 8 seconds. Doing this for 2-3 minutes will activate the parasympathetic nervous system,” as recommended by Vegas School.

Diaphragmatic breathing may help lower that racing heartbeat and blood pressure, calming that fight-or-flight response and basically telling your body to chill out.  

Celebrate the accomplishment!

Understand that this anxiety exists because you care so much about doing well. Wanting to excel is a great quality that pushes you to perform your best. Trust and be confident in the skills that got you here in the first place.  

At the end of the day, the most important thing to remember is that you survived! Life didn’t end after the exam, no matter how good or bad you believe it was. Celebrate the fact that you made it through. Treat yourself to something special because at the end of the day, there isn’t anything ice cream and a good movie can’t fix. 

Love,

Lucy

Dear Lucy,

I found out my friend has feelings for my partner. What should I do?

From, 

Caught in the Middle

Dear Caught in the Middle,

Often, the most nerve-wracking part of being in a relationship is when you have to introduce your partner to your friends. Will they get along? Will your friends understand what you see in them? Will you get the stamp of approval from both sides?

But, as in your case, sometimes your friend approves a bit too much. You bring them together, they start talking, and you think that you can finally wipe the sweat from your brow. But then you notice the little smile on your friend’s face, the way they keep moving their hair, or their laugh that only comes out around “special” people — and you start to panic again.

Sure, you think your partner is attractive, funny, charming, or whatever else you like about them, but that doesn’t mean you want anyone else to see that. At the same time, though, you can’t blame your friend for feeling the way that they do. Friend code or not, emotions can’t be controlled. 

According to social psychologist Ryan Anderson, due to a phenomenon called “mate copying,” your friend might be attracted to your partner simply because they think highly of you. They admire who you are and value your opinion, so if you like your partner, that must mean your partner is valuable, too.

Luckily, mate copying doesn’t necessarily mean that “mate poaching,” or stealing, is on the horizon — Anderson writes that poaching requires action, not just admiration. In other words, just because your friend has feelings for your partner doesn’t mean they will act on those feelings. And only about 10 to 20% of relationships begin through successful mate poaching, according to psychological studies from the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology.

Basically, Caught in the Middle, the answer to your question of “what to do” might not be about managing your friend’s feelings so much as it is managing what your friend does with those feelings. So how do you navigate between a rock and a hard place while maintaining both your friendship and relationship? Do you separate the two forever — or at least until they find someone else? Do you sit in the discomfort and hope their feelings go away? It might be a bad time to quote the Cranberries, but, “Do you have to let it linger?”

How you should proceed depends on how you learned about your friend’s feelings. I’ll try to cover all the bases. As always, take what resonates and leave the rest.

You found out indirectly:

If your friend didn’t tell you about their emotions and you heard about them through the grapevine, there are a few things to assess before addressing the problem. 

First, make sure that the source is someone you trust and that what they’re telling you isn’t an exaggeration or misinterpretation of the truth. If you suspected your friend had feelings for your partner before being told, Britannica’s definition of confirmation bias might cause you to blindly follow whatever evidence you’re given. 

If you haven’t noticed any odd behavior before the gossip, you should observe your friend’s actions around your partner. Are they consistently showing signs of interest, whether that be through body language or verbal communication? One-off instances might not mean anything, but a pattern of flirtatious behavior could justify a confrontation. Either way, you want to be sure that you have as much evidence as possible before mentioning it to your friend.

If you decide that it’s worth bringing up, make sure you approach the situation with a level head. DoSomething.org, a nonprofit that promotes positive youth action, writes that talking to your friend while angry could unnecessarily escalate the situation. Maintain your boundaries and ensure your friend knows that flirting with your partner is unacceptable, but remember that feelings are natural. After all, just because your friend likes your partner doesn’t mean anything will happen. The most important part of confrontation is assessing what your friend plans to do to remedy the situation. Repeat after me: admiration does not equal action.

If you’re struggling with what to say, try: “I know this might be awkward, but I want to have an honest conversation with you. I heard you might have feelings for my partner, and I don’t want to assume anything. Do you?”

Hopefully, at this point, your friend has listened to your concerns. If they have expressed some sort of guilt or shame for how they feel, you can decide together on a plan that will benefit both of you. You don’t have to give up your friendship or your relationship, but maybe you both agree that they shouldn’t see each other for a while. Or you could try setting up your friend with someone you think they’d like. If they truly are mate copying, your stamp of approval could be enough to lead them to greener — and more available — pastures. 

If your friend doesn’t feel guilty or meets your concerns with aggression and defensiveness, it might be time to reassess your friendship. Your bond should be built on mutual trust and respect, and their dismissal of your feelings or unwillingness to back down might be a sign that they value their desires over your friendship. If that’s the case, you deserve to be around people who wish for your success and actively help you get there. Do you really want to put energy into a friendship with someone who would blindside you for their own benefit?

It’s hard, I know. But ultimately, you are the most important person in your life, and you have to protect your peace.

You found out directly:

If you heard directly from your friend that they have feelings for your partner, you can safely believe that what they’re saying is true. More than likely, if they’re confessing to you, they feel badly about these emotions. And if they feel badly, you’ll have more space to work together on a solution.

Again, make sure that you’re in a good headspace before you engage in a conversation. Don’t feel bad if you need to stop midway through to collect yourself. This type of information can be jarring, and I don’t blame you for needing time to think about it. The fact that you are asking for advice is proof enough that you have excellent emotional regulation skills!

If you aren’t quite ready to address the situation, try saying something like: “I appreciate your honesty, but I’m not sure how to react. I need some time to process this information.” Your friend’s reaction to this statement will be telling. If they are understanding and offer to give you space, I don’t doubt that the situation can be resolved without any hurt feelings on either side. If they are defensive or try to rush your answer, I again recommend thinking about the health of your friendship more generally. Do you have room to be yourself and feel your feelings?

Talking to your partner:

However you found out about your friend’s feelings, it’s important to address it with your partner. A key sign of a healthy relationship is your ability to navigate stressful situations together, and the BetterHealth channel says this can be achieved through open and honest communication. 

Approach your partner with respect and without making assumptions. Tell them honestly how you feel about your friend’s feelings, and ask for their thoughts. If they are confused and want to help you figure it out, that’s a great sign that they are in it for the long run. If they get defensive, you might want to watch the two together a bit more.

Caught in the Middle, the most important thing to remember as you navigate this uncomfortable situation is that your feelings deserve to take up space and your friend and partner should be showing up for you as you express them. Your boundaries should be respected, and your friendship should never feel like a competition. You shouldn’t have to “win” your partner again and again, and your partner should be reassuring you that this isn’t the case.

Confronting a friend is hard as is, and even harder when attraction becomes part of the equation. But you know what you need, and your friend should know too.

In other words, you don’t have to let it linger if you don’t want to. 

Love,

Lucy



Dear Lucy,

The thought of getting a full-time job after graduation is freaking me out. Help!

From,

Anxious Grad

Dear Anxious Grad,

The idea of venturing into the world after graduating can be daunting, especially if academia is all you’re used to. However, it does not have to be as scary as it seems. Despite what you may think, I believe that you do not have to secure a full-time job immediately after graduation. There are plenty of other options like grad school, an internship, and so much more. But if you are determined to work full-time or need to for financial reasons, I have several tips to help you throughout your job search.

First, consider what you’re looking for in a job or career. Your major and experience will help point you in the right direction, but there are many other factors to consider. Do you want to have a standard office job? Do you want to have creative freedom over your work? Do you want a fat paycheck? What kind of boss or coworkers do you want to have? These are the things one should consider when applying for jobs, especially full-time ones where you plan on staying for a while.

Once you’ve got some idea about what you want to do, start applying for jobs. The New School switched over to Handshake from HireNew in late August, so I recommend checking that out if you haven’t already. Handshake is a job board site like LinkedIn or Indeed. Through TNS, you can discover jobs and internships, as well as access the TNS career services. 

Since you are just graduating, you’ll need to apply for internships or entry-level jobs requiring little experience in the field of your choice. It is also important to apply to positions that match up with your experience. Bonus points if you tailor your résumé and cover letter to reflect the qualifications of each job you apply to! 

Maybe you’re wondering, “But Lucy, what do I do if I don’t have a lot of experience?” Your best bet would be to apply for internships, as Handshake suggests. “In 2012, a survey revealed that 60% of interns were offered a job after their paid internship. Conversely, only 36% of non-interning college graduates received an offer.”

Now, I am not going to sugarcoat how difficult job hunting is, especially in New York City. As stated in this Forbes article, “The job market is extremely competitive.” The competition is a result of a larger number of college graduates as well as unrealistic expectations from employers for entry-level positions, according to the article. In addition to the prevalent competition, the aftereffects of the global pandemic, as the article suggests, has made recent grads unprepared to face the real world. However, that shouldn’t discourage you from putting yourself out there professionally.

Here are my tips for navigating the job search:

Network
If you haven’t already, create a LinkedIn profile and sign up for career fairs, summits, and events that are both on and off campus. The New School has various career-oriented events that you can find either on the events website or on NarwhalNation. Be sure to bring an updated résumé to these events and pitch yourself to recruiters. A good pitch is a simple 30-second introduction that tells recruiters who you are, what your career goals are, and what skills you bring to the table.

Tailor your application
While it seems unnecessary (and time-consuming) to tailor your résumé for every job application, you should at least update it from time to time. An article from UC Davis suggests using strong verbs in your résumé to describe your previous responsibilities. Another suggestion would be to create a master résumé where you list out all of your work experience. Then, narrow that information down to a one-page résumé or CV, depending on what the employer asks for. UC Davis also recommends having a “headline or professional statement” at the top of your résumé that highlights “what you do and why or personal characteristics so employers can learn more about you.”

As for your cover letter, UC Berkeley says to mirror the job description, which just means taking the language and skills that are listed in the description and paraphrasing them in your cover letter. “Employers either use AI technology (ATS) or simply skim through these documents to find key phrases,” so utilizing their language will make you stand out.

Prepare for interviews
Both UC Davis and UC Berkeley recommend preparing for interviews. “A common method you can use is STAR — Situation, Task, Action, and Result — which allows you to format easy-to-follow responses,” according to UC Davis. Using this method, make “a connection between your experiences and the program or job you’re applying to.” In other words, explain a situation, what your tasks or responsibilities were in that situation, how you addressed it, and the result of your actions. The interviewer will be able to get a better sense of how you’d fit into the position, and you’ll leave quite an impression.

Now you have all the information you need to start job hunting! And while the real world can be daunting, especially when you feel unprepared, these tips will (hopefully) ease your worries, Anxious Grad! And remember, UC Berkeley says, “It only takes one ‘yes’  before you begin a career and enter the next phase of your professional life.” Even if you don’t plan to secure a full-time job right away, keep these in your back pocket for when the time comes to look for your next journey. Good luck, and congratulations on finishing your degree!

Love,

Lucy


Dear Lucy,

Lucy, I’m feeling a bit isolated and have trouble making new friends at college. All of my old friends are starting to drift away from me. What’s the best way to connect with people and build meaningful friendships?

From,

Solo But Searching

Dear Solo But Searching,

The college journey can be one of the most transformative experiences in life, especially if it takes you far from home. Upon reading your submission, I thought back to my first year here at The New School and I can confirm that you’re not alone in well, feeling alone. 

As an introvert who moved across the country to attend school here in New York City, I had similar thoughts. I certainly didn’t know anyone in the city, let alone this side of the U.S. I also felt like I was growing out of some of the friendships I made when I was at home, so yes, it’s completely natural to feel this way. 

It may be easy to just go the “academic weapon” route and prioritize classes over social interaction, but we weren’t designed to be isolated all the time. According to an article that was published by the National Institutes of Health, “Humans are inherently social. We are not special in this way; it is hard to think of any animal for whom the regulation of social behaviour is not important.” Plus, human interaction is beneficial for physical, mental, and emotional support. If you’ve ever been on the phone with a family member or close friend for over an hour, doesn’t it make you feel good? That’s why socializing is so important. 

So don’t worry, Solo But Searching. I’m here to make sure your college experience isn’t just about surviving classes but also about building the connections that make these years enjoyable. Let’s talk about some ways to put yourself out there and narrow down your search for connections.

Learn how to love being independent

This might sound counterintuitive, but it’s important to learn how to be a good friend to yourself first. By learning the value of being your own best friend and having fun on your own, you’ll know how to build stronger friendships with others. 

Licensed clinical psychologist and life coach, Dr. Patricia S. Dixon shared in an interview with Bustle that “Solo activities are seen not as a sign of loneliness but as a testament to one’s self-esteem and confidence.” So no, treating yourself to dinner for one, solo tickets to an upcoming movie, or simply a cozy night on your own are not going to make people think you’re lonely. And even if they do, who cares what they think anyway? It’s your life, not theirs.

Connect with roommates + suitemates (if you have them)

If you’re a first-year, you’re more than likely living in the dorms. Your roommates are the perfect friend candidates and befriending them will make your dorm life all the more enjoyable. 

You could do this in a variety of ways, whether that’s striking up a conversation about classes, preparing a meal together if you enjoy cooking, or maybe investing in some games you can play together. I know Cards Against Humanity is an essential in my living space. The bond between roommates is strong if you guys get along, so I definitely recommend capitalizing on that.

Residential Advisors (RAs), also host a variety of events to build community within the dorms. So even if you don’t connect with your roommates quite yet, attending events that spark your interest will at least bring you to peers who share similar passions.

Join clubs or extracurriculars

If you take anything away from this article, I hope it’s this. The New School may not be revered for its extracurricular activities, but that doesn’t mean you should avoid them entirely. 

Narwhal Nation has some good opportunities you can take advantage of, with clubs pertaining to various art mediums, design, social justice, and countless more. Or (shameless plug), you could join the New School Free Press if you’re interested in writing. Joining clubs is actually how I made the majority of my friends that I have now, so I can’t recommend this tip enough.

However, if you’re looking to broaden your horizon outside of campus, you could join a fitness group at a gym close to you, join an art class that doesn’t pertain to school, or you could look for opportunities within your work if you’re employed, which brings me to my next point.

Strike up a conversation with co-workers

According to Indeed, “Making friends with coworkers can help boost on-the-job morale, improve your productivity, contribute to a better overall work-life balance and make employees more comfortable asking for help without fear of being judged.” 

Other tips they share include working in common areas, making small talk, and planning activities outside of work. Another small thing that goes a long way is saying “hi” and “bye.” What starts as a simple greeting and farewell can easily turn into conversations as time goes on. Even if it’s just small talk, you’re making a big step towards a possible friendship. 

At the end of the day, finding the balance between being proactive about finding friendships and letting things happen naturally is key. Make conscious efforts, but don’t dwell too much if the friendship isn’t progressing as quickly as you’d like. Good luck, Solo But Searching. I hope you find what you’re looking for!

Love,

Lucy


Dear Lucy,

I feel a lot of pressure from my peers to fit in and meet certain expectations. How do you handle peer pressure and stay true to yourself? 

From,

Wannabe-Free 

Dear Wannabe-Free,

I totally get it. The pressure to fit in is like an unspoken rulebook you never signed up for. It almost calls to mind that scene from Mean Girls when Janis Ian hands Cady Heron a seating chart with each of the cliques at their high school — The Plastics, the band geeks, the “unfriendly Black hotties,” the jocks, the “cool Asians.” 

And while life may not be as obvious as a classic 2000s rom-com, the desire to conform is very real. But meeting societal expectations doesn’t make you more you, it just waters you down into a version of yourself that other people want. And who wants that?

According to a study conducted by the National Library of Medicine, “Social conformity also depends on factors of power and hierarchy, in that individuals are more inclined to conform to the opinions and beliefs of people with higher status or ranking.” 

Your desire to fit in with your peers implies that you look up to them to a certain extent. They have something that you want for yourself. And while it’s healthy to emulate the behaviors or habits that you desire for your own life, it can easily become toxic if you’re constantly comparing yourself to someone else.

To revisit the Mean Girls analogy, when The Plastics are first introduced, it’s established that Regina George is the individual everyone wants to be, the “queen bee” so to speak. She was confident, rich, and possessed that “it” factor.

While Cady was initially on board with Janis’ and Damien’s plans to sabotage Regina, Cady ends up emulating her and completely losing sight of her true identity. And while your peers might not necessarily be plotting sabotage (at least I hope they’re not), this is just to say that you’re not alone in your desire to fit in and meet societal expectations. But if it comes at the cost of becoming something you’re not, it’s not worth it.

So how do you break free? First and foremost, change isn’t going to happen overnight. You’re going to need to be patient with yourself and acknowledge that this is a process. Here are a couple of helpful habits to incorporate as you navigate societal expectations.

1.) Surround yourself with the right people

To a certain extent, it’s okay if you’re intimidated by your friends. According to Forbes, “The right circle of influence raises the bar, helping us to set new, loftier expectations of ourselves. Oftentimes, we don’t know what we are capable of until we see others achieve.” 

If the friends you’re surrounding yourself with make you feel inferior, reflect on why this may be. Are they successful in areas you wish you were? Or are they simply creating a negative environment where you feel like you’re not good enough? 

As long as your friends are motivating you to be the best version of yourself, you’re on the right track! But if you feel like you need to adopt habits that are potentially toxic in order to earn their approval, it’s time to find some new friends. 

2.) Practice saying “no”

As someone who’s guilty of people-pleasing, this can be a tricky one. Here’s an example. Let’s say your friends are attending a party on a Thursday night, and you simply don’t want to join in. Don’t be afraid to say no. You don’t have to be rude and flat out refuse; there are still plenty of ways to be respectful. Indeed even compiled an extensive list of ways to say “no” that are still mindful of others’ feelings. Here are a few examples:

Saying something like “let me think about it” leaves the other person hanging. Instead, opt for simple language like “I’m unable to” or “I can’t,” and then suggest a different time to hang out. If you want to be even more polite, you can express that you appreciate the offer but simply don’t have the time. True friends will be respectful of your time and boundaries. Plus, this is just good practice for whenever you’re in a situation you don’t want to be in. 

3.) Define your values

Defining your values starts with self-reflection. It’s about recognizing what truly matters to you, rather than what others expect of you. Think about moments when you’ve felt the most confident and at peace — those experiences often reveal your core beliefs. Consider the people you admire and what qualities they embody. Identify the things you’re unwilling to compromise on, whether it’s honesty, independence, or staying true to your passions. If you need further support in determining these values, Harvard Business Review has a helpful step-by-step guide you can follow.

When faced with peer pressure, take a moment to ask yourself, “Does this align with who I want to be?” If the answer is no, that’s a sign to trust your instincts. Staying true to your values isn’t always easy, but the right people and opportunities will always align with your authenticity in the long run.

In Mean Girls, Cady’s struggle to fit in ultimately teaches her that true confidence comes from embracing who she is, not conforming to someone else’s standards. The same lesson applies to you, Wannabe-Free. 

Research supports the idea that social belonging is a fundamental human need, but studies also show that excessive conformity can lead to a loss of personal identity and long-term dissatisfaction. By defining your values, setting boundaries, and surrounding yourself with people who uplift rather than pressure you, you’ll cultivate a sense of belonging that doesn’t come at the cost of authenticity. 

The goal isn’t to be the next Regina George or to perfectly fit into an existing mold — it’s to carve out a space where you can thrive as yourself. And in doing so, you may just find that you’re already free.

Love,

Lucy


Dear Lucy, 

I’m finding it hard to stick to a budget while in college. Do you have any advice on managing my money and tracking expenses effectively?

From, 

Struggling to Budget

Dear Struggling to Budget,

Managing money can be stressful. In college, you’re often building new friendships, which means you might want to go out or participate in activities that can financially add up. Plus, saying no to new friends can be hard. Budgeting can be especially stressful when the people surrounding you don’t have to be or simply aren’t as frugal as you are.

However, paying attention to your spending is also an act of self-care. Approaching it with this mindset is the first step to managing money in a sustainable, responsible way. Instead of thinking of budgeting as restrictive, try thinking about it as a way to invest in your present and future. 

For example, I spent two years saving money for graduate school. It wasn’t easy, but every time I felt upset about having to cut my spending, I reminded myself that this choice would allow me to achieve my biggest personal and professional goal. Knowing that temporary sacrifices would pay off later was a powerful motivator. 

One way to help yourself stick to your budget is by being upfront with your friends and family about your needs.

Maybe you and your friends have a weekly dinner date at restaurants around the city. You can tell them, “I’m really trying to save money right now. I would love to keep doing our dinners, but the places we’ve been going are pricey. Can we try this affordable place?” Or you might say, “Can we do some potlucks at home instead of going out to eat every time?” 

I have a standing rule that I don’t eat out or order takeout except on birthdays, and everyone in my life has been very supportive — I just had to explain why I needed to do this. 

Another way you can stick to your budget is by planning to do free activities. The good news about living in New York City is that there are so many fun, free things to do! 

For example, consider exploring one of NYC’s parks, visiting a pay-as-you-wish museum like the Met, attending free concerts, reserving a community ticket at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, or trying an activity from this list. 

NYC for Free is a great resource to use to find more free, seasonal activities. During holidays, you can attend events like the Halloween parade, Christmas tree lightings, winter villages, and free ice skating in Bryant Park (if you have skates). Of course, you should take advantage of The New School student discounts year-round, as well. 

Planning ahead can help you find the most affordable options for your budget. For example, you can rush Broadway shows by waiting in line outside the box office the day of a show instead of buying tickets online to get the cheapest options. Also, when you and your friends go out, build in enough travel time to use the subway instead of an Uber. 

You can also take advantage of NYC’s cultural institutions by reserving free museum tickets in advance through Culture Pass or visiting museums during certain hours. (The Morgan Library & Museum is free on Friday evenings, for example.)

Comparing prices before shopping will also help your budget. Consider getting your groceries from Trader Joe’s instead of more pricey places like Westside Market NYC.

Jennifer Harpham, director of financial aid at My College Planning Team, suggests tracking savings in a way that works for you. Of course, balance is key. “Don’t stress to the point that you’re not living a good life, but stretch yourself in terms of what you can set aside,” Harpham said. 

This might mean only subscribing to one streaming service instead of five, or making coffee at home instead of buying it in cafés.

If it works for you, you can label the purpose for all of your finances in a spreadsheet and check your budget weekly to see how well you’re sticking to it. If that stresses you out, consider setting up a simple Google Doc where you track the amount of money in your savings account every month. 

This reflective — not punitive — approach allows you to see when your savings take a hit and investigate the cause. Know that fluctuations in spending are normal and okay, as long as you’re aware of them. 

Ultimately, everyone has some type of budget, and everyone will find it hard to stick to it at some point. So, Struggling to Budget, you’re not alone. Ask your parents or older family members how they approach their finances to learn from them, and find a community of people who are also budgeting so that you feel supported. 

At the end of the day, do what works best for you. Budgeting is an exercise in playing the long game, so trust that your intentional efforts will pay off throughout the rest of your life. 

Love, 

Lucy 


Lucy,

The semester is winding down and I feel like I’m running out of time. I haven’t accomplished all the things I thought I would. How do I reconcile this and regroup?

From,
Time Keeper

Dear Time Keeper,

First off, take a deep breath.

Okay, great. Now let’s talk.

Time is a tricky thing, and as constant as it is, we humans tend to have what feels like a chaotic relationship with it. We either think we have way too much of it or not nearly enough. However, the truth is, neither is the case.

Time is fixed.

Even with daylight savings time and the prediction of shorter days in a couple hundred years or so, we can all look forward to the sun rising and setting in a 24-hour rhythm — for now, anyway. So consider this: if time is constant and fixed, why do we feel like it’s out of our control? Why does it feel like it’s “running” out?

Here are the facts:
Time doesn’t run — it just is.

So if it feels like the speed button of time has been pressed, you’ll likely find that the culprit isn’t time speeding up at all — it’s that the finger on the button is your own. Somewhere in your mind, you have convinced yourself that time is running — That your life is out of your control.

This feeling causes anxiety and overwhelm. And operating under that pressure leads to burnout, stress, and ironically, experiencing the real thief of time — because that kind of stress actually shortens our lives.

I don’t want that for you, dear Time Keeper.

So here are some practical ways to rewire your feelings around time and get back in sync with it:

One: Don’t be the hero. Don’t try to ‘save time.’
It won’t work.
Going to sleep late, isolating yourself, burning the candle on both ends, skipping meals, passing on showers — please, especially not the last one.

Always prioritize your physical, mental, and spiritual health. Without any of them, you wouldn’t need to worry about time because — you’d be a vegetable.

School won’t always be on your list of things to accomplish — but you will.

And when the pressure gets really bad, ask yourself:

What would actually happen if I missed this deadline?
What happens if I reschedule this meeting?
Usually? Not much.

People have grace.
Email your professor. Reschedule that appointment. Stop putting so much pressure on yourself.

When it comes down to your health or your work — choose yourself.

Two: Make a system.
Not just a cute calendar your mom gave you for your birthday. Not a task list scribbled on a crumpled piece of paper.

A system.

Yes, I am saying it’s time to mature a little.
Craft something marvelous that helps you manage your life sustainably.

You know it’s a good one when it brings you ease — when you feel like you could run a whole household with it.

Well-run businesses have workflow systems. CRMs. Project boards. Schedules everyone adheres to. That’s how operations stay smooth.

Your life deserves the same respect.

Get yourself a calendar and a notebook.
Google Suite has them both for free if you prefer digital.

Write your life down:

What’s on the agenda this month?
What three goals matter most before the semester ends?
When/where are your meetings?
What tasks are floating in your mind (likely a million)?
Put. It. On. Paper.

Below are a few tools to help as you build your “executive functioning workflow”:

Weekly Planner Google Sheets Template:WEEKLY PLANNER Google Sheets Template – Monthly Calendar – Daily Schedule Spreadsheet
Organize Your Life in One Book (YouTube): Organize Your Life in One Book: Creating A Planner That You Will Use #organizedlife #giveaway
10 Principles to Organize Your Life (Todoist): 10 Principles to Organize Your Life (And Keep It That Way)
Lastly: Let go.
You’re only human.

Even with a system, you will probably run through several until you find one that sticks. You will not get all of your day done as perfectly as you’d like, and you might go out this semester in a falling-flying kind of way.

And the world will not end.
You will not fail college.
People will not hate you.

You will simply have done your best.

Take a breath.
But more importantly — take your time.

Because even when it doesn’t feel like it — you do have enough of it.

I promise.

Love,
Lucy


Dear Lucy,

I’ve had a falling out with a close friend, and it’s been really tough. How do you repair relationships or cope with the loss of a close friendship?

From,

Once A Bestie

Dear Once A Bestie,

Sometimes, the most painful breakups are those between friends. Whether a friendship ends in drama and flames or results in a slow drift apart, it can be difficult to cope with the void that person left in your life.

Maybe this person was your confidant and now, you feel like you have nobody to turn to. Maybe you spent the majority of your time with them and are now feeling lonely and bored. Maybe they made you laugh the most and now, life doesn’t seem so fun anymore. Or maybe they were a combination of all of these things.

Fear not, Once A Bestie. I’ve gone through my share of friendship breakups and I’m here to help you manage this. But first, you should figure out if the relationship is salvageable and if it’s worth repairing. 

Try to reflect on your time with this friend, both the good and the bad experiences. Ask yourself what value this person is adding to your life, and what makes your friendship special. Kara Mayer Robinson shared a helpful guide on knowing when it’s time to move on. When you don’t feel like you’re a priority to them, if you give more than you take in the relationship, or find yourself downplaying your accomplishments, you may need to let the friendship go. They also share tips for how to end things when this is the case.

During this process, it can be useful to write down your thoughts so they aren’t just swirling around in your head, which can potentially lead to overthinking and spiraling down in your thoughts. Journaling can also help if you decide to communicate with your friend, because you’ll already have a record of how you’re feeling. I can’t tell you how many difficult conversations were made slightly more manageable for me when I had pre-written notes.

If you decide to repair the friendship, make sure you’ve given it time and space before reaching out. If your falling out was dramatic or emotionally charged, you both likely need some time to heal your wounds.

Regardless of who was in the wrong, you probably both have some things to apologize for — and that can’t be forced. When you approach this person, don’t rush into it, instead ask if it’s okay to start the conversation and make a plan that ensures you are both comfortable. Time magazine offered eight tips for apologizing effectively in this article.

However, if you’ve taken all these steps and you’ve found that reconciliation is simply not possible, it’s time to start the process of grieving this loss.

While there’s plenty of advice online about coping with splits between romantic partners, tips for breaking up with a friend are a bit more elusive. Most people have gone through this kind of breakup before, though. A 2023 YouGov survey found that 52% of Americans have had someone end a friendship with them, and 68% have ended one themselves.

Friendship breakups function a bit differently than romantic breakups because the nature of each relationship type is different. For one, romantic partnerships are very intimate and require a deeper level of attraction and commitment, while friendships rely heavily on mutual support and companionship. When a friendship ends, it can leave us feeling blindsided, especially when the breakup is sudden.

Whether the split is instant or gradual, there’s not usually a dedicated conversation about ending a friendship when the time comes. This lack of closure can make it feel difficult to move on or even leave us wondering why it ended in the first place. It also means there aren’t any clearly defined terms for the breakup.

When romantic partners break up, they sometimes discuss how to proceed, such as going no-contact with each other or trying to remain friends. The absence of this breakup plan for friendships can create confusion, especially when hanging out in group environments. Are you talking or pretending you don’t know each other? Is your situation making your mutual friends uncomfortable? Should you leave the bar when they walk in?

All these added complications can make getting over a friendship breakup seem impossible, but I promise it isn’t. If you’re able, try to find some closure with them through an open conversation where you set ground rules for social situations, then allow yourself time to grieve.

In my experience, the hardest parts of losing a close friend are the feelings of regret. You may regret how things ended or how you behaved in the friendship. Or you may even regret being friends with them if their actions hurt you. These emotions don’t serve you, and it’s best to shift your mindset from regret to gratitude. Recognize the value this person had in your life, instead of erasing it.

Even if you can’t rekindle your connection, you’ve learned how to strengthen future relationships with others and with yourself. Licensed counselor Suzanne Degges-White recommends making a “lessons learned gratitude list” with these four prompts:

I am grateful for this friendship because I learned that I enjoy…
I am grateful for the experience of this friendship because I learned that I do not enjoy…
I am grateful for this relationship because it taught me about these boundaries…
I am grateful for this relationship because it taught me that I deserve these behaviors from true friends…
During the process of grief, it’s especially important to practice self care. Ask yourself what you need in this moment: a long shower, your favorite meal, a clean room, or a comforting piece of media. Watch your favorite show or movie, read your favorite book to relax.

When it becomes too painful to think about your ex-bestie, consider removing things that remind you of them from your living space. If you don’t want to get rid of them completely, put these items in a safe place until you’re ready to see them again. Avoid doing things you used to do together and try to make some new habits and memories that don’t include them.

One of the biggest things that will help get you through this is talking to other trusted friends and family. If you’re confiding in another friend, try choosing one that isn’t a mutual friend of your ex-bestie, as they may not be able to give objective guidance. If you don’t have someone in your family or social circle you feel comfortable confiding in, a therapist is an excellent option.

If you feel like you’re lacking closure, writing a letter to your lost friend can be extremely cathartic. Grab some paper and a pen and get it all out, even if you never send it. Sometimes, even writing it for yourself is enough.

Remember, Once A Bestie, you aren’t alone. Your friend is likely going through the same thing right now, and you will both survive this. Maybe one day you’ll reconnect, but for now, you are your most important friend.

Love,

Lucy

